README.md, before:

Family Weekend MVP (Shizuoka Kids Spots)

What’s included

- Next.js + React + TypeScript
- Prisma + API routes: `/api/spots`, `/api/spots/[id]`, `/api/reviews`
- MapLibre + OSM raster tiles (no API key)
- Pages: `index` (search launcher), `search` (list/map), `spots/[id]` (detail + review post)
- Tailwind CSS integration + mobile-friendly sizing (44px tap targets)
- Search: optional sort by current location distance

Setup

1) Install deps:

   npm install

2) Configure DB:

   # For local (recommend Postgres/Neon for consistency):
   cp .env.example .env
   # Set DATABASE_URL to your Postgres connection string (Neon, Supabase, etc.)

3) Create schema:

   # Initial setup (non-destructive push)
   npm run prisma:push

4) Seed sample data (optional, requires the Postgres DATABASE_URL in .env):

   npm run seed

5) Run dev server:

   npm run dev

Optional: prettier map tiles (MapTiler)

- Get a free MapTiler API key and set `NEXT_PUBLIC_MAPTILER_KEY` in `.env`.
- With the key, the map uses MapTiler Streets (vector) for faster, nicer rendering. Without it, it falls back to OSM raster tiles.

Endpoints

- GET /api/spots?q=沼津 → { items: Spot[], total }
- GET /api/spots/:id → Spot with reviews
- POST /api/reviews { spotId, name, stars(1..5), age, text }

Events API

- GET /api/events?q=三島&from=ISO8601&to=ISO8601 → { items: Event[], total }
- GET /api/events/:id → Event

Notes

- MapLibre uses OSM raster tiles and clusters pins; clicking a cluster zooms in, clicking a point opens the detail.
- Tailwind is enabled; utility classes are used across pages.
- Buttons/inputs meet recommended 44px tap size.
- “現在地から近い順” toggles geolocation-based sorting (permission required).
- Search page includes a toggle between Spots and Events; Events support list/map view and distance sort.

Map legend

- Spot: green pin (`#10b981`)
- Restaurant: amber pin (`#f59e0b`)

Clustering tuning

- `clusterRadius` set to 60 for better grouping on mobile.
- Color/size steps for clusters: 10 / 30 / 100 points.

Deploy to Vercel

- Prereqs: GitHub repo + Postgres DB (Neon recommended)
- Steps:
  1. Push this repo to GitHub
  2. Create a Neon Postgres project; copy the connection string
  3. In Vercel → New Project → Import from Git → select this repo
  4. Add Environment Variable `DATABASE_URL` with your Neon connection string
  5. Build Command: `npm run prisma:push && next build` (or run db push once locally and just `next build`)
  6. Deploy; the API routes will connect to Neon

Import Events (CSV)

- Prepare a CSV with headers like: `title,city,address,venue,lat,lng,startAt,endAt,tags,images,url`
- Dry run: `npm run import:events:csv -- ./path/to/events.csv --dry-run`
- Import: `npm run import:events:csv -- ./path/to/events.csv`

Auto Sync (GitHub Actions)

- Configure official sources in `scripts/event-sources.json`, e.g.:
  `[{ "type": "csv", "url": "https://example.org/events.csv", "name": "City X" }]`
- Set `DATABASE_URL` secret in GitHub repo
- Workflow runs daily; respects ToS by only fetching configured public feeds

Vercel Environment Variables

- `DATABASE_URL`: Postgres接続文字列（Neon/Supabaseなど）
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_MAPTILER_KEY`: MapTilerのAPIキー（任意。指定時はMapTilerベクターマップ、未指定時はOSMラスタ）

Versioning & Release

- Versioning: Semantic Versioning（MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH）
- Commits: Conventional Commits（例: `feat(map): add clustering`）
- Release: GitHub Actions（release-please）で自動リリースPRを生成し、マージでタグ/リリース作成
  - 対象ブランチ: `main`
  - 自動生成: CHANGELOG, バージョン自動更新、GitHub Release
  - 手動タグ運用と併用可（現在は v0.1.0 を用意）

Notes for Prisma

- The schema uses Postgres provider. For local development, prefer pointing `.env` to a Postgres instance to match production.
- Current fields `tags`/`images` are stored as JSON strings for portability. You can migrate them to native array/JSON types later.

Clustering

- Implemented via a GeoJSON source with `cluster: true`, plus circle and count symbol layers. Behavior mirrors Mapbox’s cluster UX.

Changelog

- 2025-09-06
  - Map: add MapLibre glyphs and improve cluster count label font.
  - Search: Geolocation sorting UX with locating indicator and disable during fetch.
  - Map: Support MapTiler Streets v2 via `NEXT_PUBLIC_MAPTILER_KEY` with OSM fallback.

Commit message:

feat(pwa): add web app manifest, service worker registration, iOS meta; basic SW caching; document A2HS steps

README.md, after:

Family Weekend MVP (Shizuoka Kids Spots)

What’s included

- Next.js + React + TypeScript
- Prisma + API routes: `/api/spots`, `/api/spots/[id]`, `/api/reviews`
- MapLibre + OSM raster tiles (no API key)
- Pages: `index` (search launcher), `search` (list/map), `spots/[id]` (detail + review post)
- Tailwind CSS integration + mobile-friendly sizing (44px tap targets)
- Search: optional sort by current location distance

Setup

1) Install deps:

   npm install

2) Configure DB:

   # For local (recommend Postgres/Neon for consistency):
   cp .env.example .env
   # Set DATABASE_URL to your Postgres connection string (Neon, Supabase, etc.)

3) Create schema:

   # Initial setup (non-destructive push)
   npm run prisma:push

4) Seed sample data (optional, requires the Postgres DATABASE_URL in .env):

   npm run seed

5) Run dev server:

   npm run dev

Optional: prettier map tiles (MapTiler)

- Get a free MapTiler API key and set `NEXT_PUBLIC_MAPTILER_KEY` in `.env`.
- With the key, the map uses MapTiler Streets (vector) for faster, nicer rendering. Without it, it falls back to OSM raster tiles.

Endpoints

- GET /api/spots?q=沼津 → { items: Spot[], total }
- GET /api/spots/:id → Spot with reviews
- POST /api/reviews { spotId, name, stars(1..5), age, text }

Events API

- GET /api/events?q=三島&from=ISO8601&to=ISO8601 → { items: Event[], total }
- GET /api/events/:id → Event

Notes

- MapLibre uses OSM raster tiles and clusters pins; clicking a cluster zooms in, clicking a point opens the detail.
- Tailwind is enabled; utility classes are used across pages.
- Buttons/inputs meet recommended 44px tap size.
- “現在地から近い順” toggles geolocation-based sorting (permission required).
- Search page includes a toggle between Spots and Events; Events support list/map view and distance sort.

PWA (Add to Home Screen)

- Included: Web App Manifest (`public/manifest.webmanifest`) and Service Worker (`public/sw.js`).
- Registration: `pages/_app.tsx` registers the SW and links the manifest.
- Android (Chrome): Visit the site over HTTPS → browser menu → Add to Home screen.
- iOS (Safari): Share → Add to Home Screen. Uses `apple-mobile-web-app` meta and touch icon.
- Icons: Manifest currently points to placeholders under `public/images/`. Replace with proper square icons (192×192, 512×512) for best results.

Map legend

- Spot: green pin (`#10b981`)
- Restaurant: amber pin (`#f59e0b`)

Clustering tuning

- `clusterRadius` set to 60 for better grouping on mobile.
- Color/size steps for clusters: 10 / 30 / 100 points.

Deploy to Vercel

- Prereqs: GitHub repo + Postgres DB (Neon recommended)
- Steps:
  1. Push this repo to GitHub
  2. Create a Neon Postgres project; copy the connection string
  3. In Vercel → New Project → Import from Git → select this repo
  4. Add Environment Variable `DATABASE_URL` with your Neon connection string
  5. Build Command: `npm run prisma:push && next build` (or run db push once locally and just `next build`)
  6. Deploy; the API routes will connect to Neon

Import Events (CSV)

- Prepare a CSV with headers like: `title,city,address,venue,lat,lng,startAt,endAt,tags,images,url`
- Dry run: `npm run import:events:csv -- ./path/to/events.csv --dry-run`
- Import: `npm run import:events:csv -- ./path/to/events.csv`

Auto Sync (GitHub Actions)

- Configure official sources in `scripts/event-sources.json`, e.g.:
  `[{ "type": "csv", "url": "https://example.org/events.csv", "name": "City X" }]`
- Set `DATABASE_URL` secret in GitHub repo
- Workflow runs daily; respects ToS by only fetching configured public feeds

Vercel Environment Variables

- `DATABASE_URL`: Postgres接続文字列（Neon/Supabaseなど）
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_MAPTILER_KEY`: MapTilerのAPIキー（任意。指定時はMapTilerベクターマップ、未指定時はOSMラスタ）

Versioning & Release

- Versioning: Semantic Versioning（MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH）
- Commits: Conventional Commits（例: `feat(map): add clustering`）
- Release: GitHub Actions（release-please）で自動リリースPRを生成し、マージでタグ/リリース作成
  - 対象ブランチ: `main`
  - 自動生成: CHANGELOG, バージョン自動更新、GitHub Release
  - 手動タグ運用と併用可（現在は v0.1.0 を用意）

Notes for Prisma

- The schema uses Postgres provider. For local development, prefer pointing `.env` to a Postgres instance to match production.
- Current fields `tags`/`images` are stored as JSON strings for portability. You can migrate them to native array/JSON types later.

Clustering

- Implemented via a GeoJSON source with `cluster: true`, plus circle and count symbol layers. Behavior mirrors Mapbox’s cluster UX.

Changelog

- 2025-09-06
  - Map: add MapLibre glyphs and improve cluster count label font.
  - Search: Geolocation sorting UX with locating indicator and disable during fetch.
  - Map: Support MapTiler Streets v2 via `NEXT_PUBLIC_MAPTILER_KEY` with OSM fallback.
